NMDS Especies ASV compartidas
================

From \[GUSTA.ME\]
(<https://mb3is.megx.net/gustame/reference/transformations>) ##Data
transformation ###Main idea *Occasionally, the variables in a “raw” data
set have properties that violate an assumption of a statistical
procedure (e.g. normally distributed values) or which cannot be compared
to other variables due to differences in scale or variability. For
example, principal components analysis (PCA) requires that variables be
linearly related to one another and on roughly the same scale or will
perform poorly. Rather than abandoning an analysis due to inappropriate
data structure, it may be possible to transform the variables so they
satisfy the conditions in question. A transformation involves the
application of a mathematical procedure to every value of a given
variable or set of variables to create a new set of values. The new
values of the transformed variables should still represent the data, but
will be more amenable to analysis or comparison.* *The sections below
first describe some basic transformations and then discuss
transformations specifically geared towards comparing variables. A set
of ecologically-motivated transformations intended to allow Euclidean
representation of ecological dissimilarities by methods such as PCA and
redundancy analysis (RDA) are also summarised.* ***Before you begin
transforming your data, ensure there is a defined and well-supported
reason to do so. Common rationale includes linearising, normalising, or
standardising data in order to respect a method’s assumptions.***

### 
